---
layout: instructions
title: Assignment 1
code: me152a
---

# Assignment 1 - Calculator

This assignment should be done in pairs.

### Purpose

The purpose of assignment 1 is to create a calculator using only JavaScript. The calculator will have a couple of basic mathematical operations (listed below) which will be available through the console of a browser.


### Methods

Creating the calculator and each operation should be done via the `prototype` property. The following methods should be available:

* `add(a, b)` - returns the result of adding **a** with **b**
* `subtract(a, b)` - returns the result of subtracting **a** with **b**
* `multiply(a, b)` - returns the result of multiplying **a** with **b**
* `divide(a, b)` - returns the result of dividing **a** with **b**
* `calculate(input)` - this method takes an array of objects, where each object contains the following properties: `valueA`, `valueB` and `operation`. This method will go through each object, calculate the result of **valueA** and **valueB** using the chosen **operation**

### Example usage

Here is some basic usage of the calculator (you may use this example to verify that your code actually works as expected):

``` js
// Create our calculator
var calc = new Calculator();

// Add
calc.add(5, 15); // => 20
calc.add("Sherlock", 12); // => 0

// Subtract
calc.subtract(20, 5); // => 15
calc.subtract(35, "Oscar"); // => 0

// Multiply
calc.multiply(5, 5); // => 25
calc.multiply("Watson", 12); // => 0

// Divide
calc.divide(10, 5); // => 2
calc.divide(12, 0); // => 0
calc.divide(50, "Dog"); // => 0

var operations = [
    { valueA: 5, valueB: 5, operation: "multiply" },
    { valueA: 20, valueB: 4, operation: "add" },
    { valueA: 7, valueB: 6, operation: "subtract" }
];

// Calculate
calc.calculate(operations); // => 50
// First operation 5 * 5 = 25
// Second operation 20 + 4 = 24
// Third operation 7 - 6 = 1
// 25 + 24 + 1 = 50
```

### Requirements

* All methods has to be added through the `prototype` property
* All methods should have a comment containing the following: What does the method do? What arguments does the method take? What does the method return?
* The methods **add**, **subtract**, **multiply** and **divide** has to verify that the arguments are of the type `Number`, if the arguments are not numbers the method should return `0`
* The method **divide** also has to make sure "zero division" does not happen, that is for example `5/0`, if this is the case the method should return `0`

### Documentation and submission

* You should document your assignment in 2 - 3 pages including the references (example: sources you utilized for your assignment).
* After you have completed the assignment you should pack all of your files (including the document) into a zip-file and name it with your lastnames (from your pair). **Note:** don't forget to write your names in the document and source code as well
* The **deadline** for Assignment 1 is **April 4, 2017 23:59**, to be submitted to It's Learning 
Good luck!
