---
layout: instructions
title: Assignment 2
code: me152a
---

# Assignment 2 - Mashup

This assignment should be done in the same pairs as in assignment 1.

### Description

Your task in this assignment will be to design and implement a mashup service. In the first part of the assignment you should discuss the main idea that you have for a mashup service, and describe a potential usage scenario of it (use case). Examples for such scenario could be "What are the seismic activities near your Facebook friends (or any social sites)" or "Where can I find the best hotels close to my LinkedIn colleagues?". You can visit the mashups directory at: [http://www.programmableweb.com/mashups/directory](http://www.programmableweb.com/mashups/directory) to get some insights about your implementation. **Please do not replicate the implementation found on the web.**

The list below presents the categories of different APIs (examples) that you are encouraged but not limited to use while completing the requirements of this assignment.

* **Mapping** - Google Maps, Microsoft Bing maps, Yahoo Maps, Open Street Maps
* **Messaging** - Twilio, Jaiku
* **Photo** - Flickr, Picasa Web Albums
* **Video** - Youtube, Vimeo
* **Social** - Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn
* **Bookmarks** - Del.icio.us, Digg
* **Music** - Spotify, Last.fm, Soundcloud

### Requirements

**When developing a mashup service these requirements must be met:**

1. You should combine and consume **at least 3** different APIs from the above-mentioned categores (but not limited to them)
2. Users should be able to interact with your solution
3. The implementation must be done with JavaScript

**In the report you should:**

1. explicily describe the mashup scenario (use case)
2. describe the technologies used
3. describe the connections between the combined APIs
4. provide a simple diagram to describe your solution

The report should be at most 3 pages including text and diagrams.

### Submission

After you have completed this assignment you should pack all of your files (including the report) into a zip-file and name it with your lastnames (from your pair). **Note:** please write your fulle names in the report and your sorce code.

Upload your assignment to the specific folder at It's Learning. The **deadline** for submission is **April 11, 2016, 23:59.**

Good luck!

